title: Scope

Surfaces, interfaces and their interactions with gases, fluids, and biological systems are the key elements of modern functional materials and analytical systems. Research in surface science and interface effects is almost by definition strongly interdisciplinary and crosses the classical disciplines of engineering, physics, chemistry, biology, and medicine. Especially, the emerging fields of nanotechnology, nanomedicine, and biotechnology have seen a substantial boost during last years by exploiting interface phenomena in various domains of high public interest. The EnFI conference addresses this broad vision by focusing on the synthesis of advanced materials, on analysing and understanding of their unique properties, and on their utilization in high-end technological applications. Not in the least, special attention goes to surface-modification strategies, allowing the creation of a manifold of smart and innovative functional properties.

EnFI 2015, running now in its 8th consecutive year, offers a platform for an interdisciplinary exchange of ideas amongst PhD students and postdoctoral researchers aside of the established conferences. For selected topics, tutorial lectures are given by internationally renowned experts. Moreover, young researchers will present their recent results as brief oral presentations and poster contributions in an interdisciplinary context. Ample time will be given to discussions on materials science, surface engineering, theoretical modelling concepts, and pathways towards system integration in sensors, optical, electronic, and medical devices. EnFI 2015 will be held at Hannover Medical School (MHH) in cooperation the Leibniz University Hannover (LUH).

Hannover is the capital city of lower saxony and belongs with over 500.000 Inhabitants to the 15 biggest cities in Germany. Hannover is well known for important international trade fairs like the Hannover fair and CeBIT, but is also well known for its research in various fields at, among others, the MHH and the LUH. Tourist can be guided by a red line through the city center past historic sights like the old and new town hall or the Maschsee. 